So for this last session, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to introduce to all of you our last speaker
for today, which is Mr. Ramón Guijarro.
He's the software engineer from Undefined Labs from Spain.
He's going to talk about a love story written in JavaScript.
à¸‚à¸­à¹€à¸ªà¸µà¸¢à¸‡à¸›à¸£à¸šà¸¡à¸·à¸­à¸•à¹‰à¸­à¸™à¸£à¸±à¸šà¸„à¸¸à¸“
Hi everybody.
How's everyone doing?
Okay.
Still have some energy left in you for the last talk
of the day.
Okay, so I'm really happy to be here in Bangkok
for the first time in my life.
And it's especially exciting because I'm debuting
a new talk.
And I'm closing the event on top of that,
so thanks a lot for having me.
As you already know, my name is Ramón and for the next
half an hour, I'm going to be talking to you about
JavaScript, a love.
What we're basically going to talk about is some problems
that current dating apps have.
And we're going to see what people do about that
and how those behaviors can be automated.
And I'm going to show you a tool that I built just
for that with JavaScript.
But before we get into the topic,
let me tell you a little bit about me.
So I'm a web developer from Madrid, Spain.
That was a long trip, by the way.
I work at a small startup called Undefined Labs
in which we build developer tools to help teams
ship better code faster.
And I work primarily with JavaScript and React.
And I really like them, but above all,
what I like is the web platform in general.
I love its promise of an open medium that is
accessible to all.
And I like the developing community around it as well.
I think it's a really nice one and that's partly why
I go to conferences and I give talks like this one.
I also volunteer in a coding bootcamp for women
in Madrid.
So you probably can already tell that I care quite a bit
about community, diversity, and inclusion in our industry.
So let me take a moment to say that one of the things
that I would really like to see as part of that
is conferences stepping up their game when it comes
to these issues.
Things like having an enforceable code of conduct
so that everybody can feel safe or making an active
effort to feature more diverse speaker lineups.
Some conferences are already doing this and that's great,
but I would like it to become the norm rather than
the exception.
And you as attendees actually have the power to change it
by demanding these things from the conferences you go to.
So let's see if we can do better about that.
If you want to reach out to me later,
that's my Twitter account.
My DMs are open, so feel free to drop me a line.
And with all that being said, let's get started.
Let's talk about dating apps.
What about them?
What are the problems?
Well, there are a lot of them nowadays.
Tinder, of course, is king, but there are many others:
OkCupid, Grindr, Bumble, Happn, Hinge, Ship, Match.com.
The list goes on and on.
However, most of them works in similar ways to Tinder.
And here's the facts about them.
Most popular dating apps are driven by pictures.
If you ever use any of them, you know this.
And pictures always win over anything else in profiles.
Co-founder of OkCupid says that photos drive 90%
of the action in online dating.
But even for apps that rely more on profiles,
questions, interests than pictures,
it turns out that we don't really know what we want.
Match.com did some research on this and they found out
that the people we send messages to don't actually match
what we say we want.
So that's interesting.
And then we have some issues that are more specific
to men, like the fact that women are much more selective.
Tinder researched this and they found out that men
are three times as likely to swipe right than women.
So there's a 14% chance for a women to swipe right
on some guy.
And that's not so bad, right?
14% is not that low.
Well, while good-looking men can probably do fine
with that, the truth is that that 14% goes down a lot
for less attractive people.
And this is regardless of age.
So the truth is that an average man is liked by only 1%
of women in these dating apps.
So how does all this make people feel?
Well, some people feel like the way apps work promotes
superficiality because it's all based on pictures.
They feel that the liking process is arbitrary since
we don't really know what we want even when pictures
are not involved.
And then on top of all this, you are pushed to come back
every day to the app because most of them have a daily
limit in the number of likes that you can give.
So you are forced to come back to the app every day
to keep using it in the hope that there will be a match.
So how can automation help with all this?
Well, first we need to see what it is that we want
to automate.
Due to the facts we just saw, some men end up following
what we could call the "like everybody" strategy.
Since the whole process feels so superficial
and so arbitrary, and the chances are so low,
it all really feels like grunt work.
So some people say might as well like everybody
and hope for a match instead of spending time
actually assessing every person for a very little return.
So the problem with this approach is that it still takes time,
not as much as if you are carefully looking into its profile,
but it still requires you to go back to the app every day
to swipe.
And it also leads to wasting some of your chances
since you're swiping basically without looking.
Some of your likes will go to profiles without pictures
or with empty descriptions
or with things that you are not looking for in general.
So how can we automate this strategy and make it better?
Well, we want something that does the swiping for us
based on some preferences.
This way we have something that is automatic and unattended.
We don't need to go back to the app every day,
so that saves us time.
And it's also more selective because due to those preferences,
we can say some things about when we want to not match
with someone.
So, I joined Tinder like a year ago.
All my friends were on it and they told me about this
like everybody strategy.
And I was thinking about it and at some point I thought,
"Okay, let's build something, even if just for fun,
that does this."
So that's what I did and that's what we're going to see now.
I built it for Tinder since it's the most popular dating app,
but you could do similar things for other apps
and we'll talk about that at the end of the talk.
So the way the tool started is actually pretty different
from what it is today.
I learned that Tinder has a web app in addition to
the mobile apps.
So since I'm a web developer, that's great for me
and I knew that Puppeteer was a thing.
So I wrote a script with Puppeteer that runs an actual
Google Chrome browser and imitates what a real user
would do on the Tinder website.
Because it is an actual browser,
it was a little slow and heavy and that bothered me.
So after doing that, which I only got to the login part,
didn't do the whole thing, as I was doing it, I thought,
"Wait, this is a website, so I could open the developer tools
and look at network requests, maybe,
and try to figure out how the web app is working."
Because it's a single page application,
so it's like doing requests asynchronously
and updating the DOM.
So I can try to figure out how it works.
It turns out that the API is fairly straightforward.
It's not obfuscated in any way.
I could see the endpoints, the payloads, everything.
I should have probably thought about this first
before doing the browser automation thing,
but you know, I'm stupid, I don't know.
And then I thought that I cannot be the first one
to think about this because even before the web app existed,
you could still sniff traffic from the Android
or the iOS apps.
And sure enough, there is some unofficial online documentation
about the Tinder API and that helped me finish figuring out
some parts that were not clear to me,
especially the authentication flow.
And so with all this knowledge,
I ended up building a command line tool with Node.js
that does requests directly to the Tinder API.
So that way can be very fast,
doesn't need to run a full headless browser
in the background.
And this tool is called Swipr.
So let's just take a look at how it works.
This is a terminal.
You run Swipr.
It will ask for your login information
the first time you get in there,
so you need to enter your phone number.
You get a text message with a confirmation code.
You will enter it as well and with this you're logged in.
And now it goes to the liking criteria part.
It asks you for the minimum number of photos
that you want in the profiles that you want to match.
Let's say five.
Then the length of the bio in words
and then if you want to like back or not.
And with that we're all set.
We're swiping.
You can see the emoji means obviously left and right
for the swipes and you get the name of the person,
their age, and the number of photos.
Not really sophisticated, it's a simple thing.
It's not complicated, but it's a fun use of technology.
So there's that.
So how is this built?
Let's look a little bit at the internal architecture.
So this is more or less what it is.
The way is built is intentionally done by modules
and all of them are decoupled from each other.
They could even be their own packages if you wanted to do too.
And the nice thing about this is that implementation
details are hidden between them.
So you can refactor and change things in each of them
without affecting the rest, very independently.
For example, the configuration module could change from
reading from the disk to reading from the network,
and the rest of the program wouldn't know as long as
you keep the API.
And that's a good strategy in general and a good
pattern to follow.
So the core of the CLI tool is the UI module.
This is just a main loop with an async/await function.
And all it does is call the other different modules,
the user input and the logging modules, to get the input
from the user and print things to the console.
One interesting pattern that I'm using is this
try/catch at top level.
What this allows you to do is that in any other module,
whenever we have an error that is critical, then we
just want to stop the app completely.
What I would do is just throw an error with a
meaningful error message.
And then I know that in this main loop it is caught
and I can print the error message in a nice way,
and always consistently with the same format.
Because I'm always printing it from here.
And I could do some additional things if I wanted,
like save a log of the error or something.
Another nice thing that the code does that is
interesting is handling API errors in a semantic way.
This is what I was talking about.
We have the main module.
We are doing stuff and then we are catching the API
errors, and throwing errors with specific messages
that then will be printed in the main module.
So that helps with error handling.
It's a nice way to handle all the error flow in a
simple way.
Then about the logging module.
This is sometimes not something people think much
about, but I think it's an important thing.
It's just a module that abstracts details away,
ensuring consistent message formatting.
So it exports semantic functions like ðš™ðš›ðš’ðš—ðšðšƒðš’ðšðš•ðšŽ or
ðš™ðš›ðš’ðš—ðšð™»ðš’ðš”ðšŽ or ðš™ðš›ðš’ðš—ðšðš‚ðšžðšŒðšŒðšŽðšœðšœ.
So in the case of ðš™ðš›ðš’ðš—ðšð™»ðš’ðš”ðšŽ, for example, it would
print the little emoji left hand with a hand left
and right.
Or in this case, success or error, it would print
the message you pass to it prepended with a tick
or an x.
So that way you're guaranteeing that your error
messages or your success messages will be always
printed the same way.
Then the config module is interesting as well.
Separated from the rest and it does three things.
It reads configuration, writes configuration,
and validates.
And the validation part is important.
If you need to check that the phone number the user
enters is an integer and maybe you want to check
the length of it.
And you could do that on the UI part as you are
receiving the user input, but that can get messy
because maybe you then have some other UI in which
you do that as well.
So it's better to have the validation of your config
values where the config is.
So we have an ðš’ðšœð™²ðš˜ðš—ðšðš’ðšðš…ðšŠðš•ðš’ðš function that just
does that.
So from the UI modules you can call this with the
value the user is giving you and check that it is
actually a value.
And same thing when you're reading config from
the disk.
Maybe the user modified the config manually and
it's not valid.
Well, you can use this function to clean that up
before returning the response to the rest of
the program.
And then there's the network module, which is
probably the most interesting part.
It could actually be an independent API client if
you just chopped it away from the rest of
the program.
And there are a few things that you need to handle
here.
Authentication and tokens is probably among the most
interesting ones.
So, once you are authenticated, you need to append
a token with every API token with every request.
But that token can expire and so you have your API
token and then you have a refresh token.
The refresh token allows you to ask for a new API
token.
So what happens is that at some random point in time,
the API token can expire and then you need to use
the refresh token to ask for a new one.
But it would be a little bit shitty if the app just
crashed when the API token expires.
So what you can do is build an API module that does
that automatically.
So how we could go about that?
This is the code that I use in the tool, more or
less, a little bit simplified.
So this is just a ðšŒðš›ðšŽðšŠðšðšŽð™°ð™¿ð™¸ function.
What it does is it just gets all the API methods and
modifies them in this way.
You can see that ðšŒðšŠðš•ðš•ð™¼ðšŽðšðš‘ðš˜ðš function there.
That calls the method with the API token.
And then it actually tries to call it and if we get
a status code for unauthorized, what we do is that
we call a refresh API token function that will get
the new API token and then we call the method again.
So this way we can forget about it in the rest of
our app.
When we call our methods that need authentication,
we know that they're going to work and if the API
token is expired, we know that we'll get a new one
automatically without needing to worry about that.
And then another interesting thing is like all the
API methods have semantic errors.
So here, for example, is the method for liking a user.
So it does a get request to that /like endpoint with
a user ID and API token.
And then it parses the response.
And if the remaining likes are falsy, which means
zero, instead of just throwing whatever, it throws
an ð™¾ðš„ðšƒ_ð™¾ð™µ_ð™»ð™¸ð™ºð™´ðš‚ constant that is exported from
the module.
So then the nice thing is that from the UI part,
you can check these errors and print specific messages.
I think we actually saw it before.
There you go. ðšŠðš™ðš’ð™´ðš›ðš›ðš˜ðš›ðšœ.ð™¾ðš„ðšƒ_ð™¾ð™µ_ð™»ð™¸ð™ºð™´ðš‚, that's the
same constant.
So from your main method, you can check that and say,
"Oh, this is this specific error."
And that's good practice in general because the
alternative would be to be checking the status code
and you would need to be doing weird things like,
"Oh, I called the like user method and is returning
a 503 and I know that for this method, it means
this thing."
So it's better to have all this logic inside your
API methods.
So then you don't worry about it.
If the Tinder API changes tomorrow and instead of
returning a likes remaining key with a zero, it
returns an error with some status code, it doesn't
matter.
You just change this method and the rest of your
program doesn't need to care about it.
So that's nice.
And you know, the nice thing about using Node to
build CLIs like this is that there's actually a
pretty good ecosystem of packages for it.
Some of the things that I did manually, there are
actually nice libraries for it, free license ones,
but again, I'm stupid, so don't be me and use them.
Like, don't do all these things manually.
We have tools like Inquirer that I'm actually using,
that is great for user input.
It allows you to ask the user for things in a lot
of different ways and it formats everything for you
really nicely.
So not only just strings, but you can print list
of options for the user to choose with multiple
selection, a lot of things.
It's really good and the API is super nice.
So that's definitely a must if you're building a
CLI tool.
Then there's modules like Chalk that allows you to
print output with coloring and bold and all those
nice things that you want to see.
And then for API, there's a really nice module called
apisauce that is based on Axios, which is a pretty
popular HTTP client for JavaScript.
But apisauce also handles errors in a similar way
to what we've seen.
It has constants based on status code.
So instead of you having to go and check the status
code, it will just return an object with an error
field with a constant for the status code, like
unauthorized or whatever.
And it also has a way to do transformations on
requests and responses, which is super useful because
you can define, for example, a transformation on
every request to inject your API token, so you don't
need to handle that manually.
Similar to what we've seen before in my example,
but it's all taken care of by the library.
So this is nice one.
And then we have modules to help us with configuration,
like .env that helps you read environment variables
if your CLI tool needs to read them for config.
And Conf, which basically handles configuration files
for you.
It will write your configuration to an appropriate
file depending on the user operating system and
everything is taken care of.
And then you have other tools that are more
comprehensive.
If you want actual toolkits or frameworks, they
include a lot of the functionalities that we've seen
before under single packages.
Gluegun and Oclif are two examples of that.
So,
Let's finish with some ideas for the future of this tool.
First, of course, adding more liking criteria.
Right now, it's very basic.
So, you could add a blacklist or a whitelist of words
that you want to see in bios.
You could do image analysis in order to check that
because users can have like two or three pictures,
but maybe they are not their face,
or they're not actual faces,
they're just cartoons or something.
That's fairly common.
So, you could use image analysis to check if there are
actual faces in the pictures.
Or maybe set the percentage of people to like because
depending on the algorithm of the dating app,
you might not want to like absolutely everybody.
Support other dating apps either with,
by looking at network requests of web apps.
Bumble, for example, recently released a web app,
so you can look into that.
Or you can also do traffic sniffing in mobile apps.
And also, we could turn this into a website.
We would need to store the credentials for the users,
but you know, it's doable.
Or even an Electron app with a background process
that does this for you.
There are a lot of things that you can do to improve
this tool, or at least to keep expanding it.
So, some final thoughts about all this.
Well, we had, or at least I had, a lot of fun finding
out the different ways to do this,
the pros and cons, figuring out the APIs
of the dating app.
We also learned that building CLIs with Node is not
only possible, but actually nice and enjoyable.
It's a very nice experience.
However, did we really solve the dating app problem?
Definitely not.
53 matches, 83 people he begun talking,
nine agreed to a date, three stood him up,
two canceled, leaving him with four actual dates.
This is just an example of a real user experience.
So, the tool is just a way to skip some of the grunt
work and focus on the actually difficult and
interesting part, which is talking to other people
and actually meeting them.
Because at the end of the day, humans will be humans.
Thank you.
Thank you for sharing your experience with us.